# Creating a risk score for cryptocurrency transactions on the Blockchain
## Southern Methodist University: Master's of Science in Data Science 

### By: Sudip Bhattacharyya, Daniel Freeman, Timothy McWilliams, and Craig Hall


In this paper, we introduce a risk scoring mechanism for cryptocurrency users. While the decentralized architecture of blockchain technology on which cryptocurrencies operate has many benefits, the anonymity of users in this space has provided criminal users an alternative to cash for harboring their illicit activities. In order to distinguish law-abiding cryptocurrency users from potential threats in the Bitcoin marketplace, we analyze historical hacks and thefts to profile transactions, classify them into risky and non-risky categories using several machine learning techniques and finally develop a risk score for every unique user based on their past engagement in any unlawful Bitcoin incident. We find that all of our machine learning models have produced an outstanding level of accuracy in classifying transactions. All of the baseline models we develop using Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbors and Support Vector Machine algorithms are over 95% accurate. A successful classification leads to a reliable risk scoring method. The idea of flagging potential risky users acts as a guideline for safe Bitcoin transactions. In a cryptocurrency marketplace where intermediaries are non-existent, a self- attestation mechanism in the form of a risk score offers a viable alternative to enhance trust.
